Character Profiles 

Gulista 

Gulista is a very observant and curious young woman. She studied 
History of Art at Oxford University in Rajasthan. Her parents are English
but she has lived in Gujrat all of her life. She loves to read, visit
museums and draw.

Sajid 

Sajid is a 28-year-old writer who writes mystery novels for an important 
English publishing company. He lives in Spain, with Gulista his wife, but he 
loves to travel in India, his native country. Unlike Gulista, He does not like 
history and does not know much about art. He prefers reading mystery 
novels, watching horror movies and loves the outdoors. 

Laurence Windsor 

Laurence Windsor is a wealthy middle-aged man. He is the father of a 
young girl, named Mariana. Laurence has always been an avid art collector 
and his most prised collection contains a number of important 18th and 19th 
century English art works, including a number of paintings by the legendary 
English artist, William Turner.

Mariana Windsor 

Mariana is the daughter of Laurence and she has inherited his love for 
collections. Mariana’s greatest passion is her collection of rare comics, which 
she passes her days reading in her bedroom. 

Tahir

Tahir is an antiques dealer who has a shop in one of Bangalore’s 
oldest antiques markets. Tahiris known for not being picky about the objects 
he receives. He will accept stolen objects and is just as ready to swindle the 
sellers he obtains objects from as he is to prey on innocent buyers. However, 
Tahirdoesn’t know very much about art, so he would 
not be capable of recognising a truly valuable work, even if it was right 
under his nose…. 

The Man in the Hat 
This mysterious character has been seen visiting Bangalore’s antiques 
market and museums a lot lately. Nobody knows much about him, except 
that he seems to have a passion for art and history and he always keeps the 
brim of his hat down so it is hard to catch a clear glimpse of his face. 




Introduction to the Story
My Wife Gulista is a young art historian girl and we travels to India. 
One day, while we wandering through an antiques market in Bangalore, 
the I see a collection of beautiful paintings which immediately draw Gulista’s 
attention. Before long, Gulista recognises one of the paintings as an original 
work by the legendary English painter, William Turner. But why would one 
of Turner’s paintings be on sale in an old antiques market? 
We decide to speak with the owner of the market stall to find out. The stall 
owner, Tahir, tells them that a few days ago, a strange man sold him 
the paintings. He explains however, that he did not realise they were original 
works and that he did not pay very much for them. Gulista begins to worry, 
realising that the artworks must be stolen…. 
Tahirpromises the girls that he will contact a friend who is an expert in 
English art and ask him to examine the paintings and verify their authenticity. 
He tells them that if the paintings turn out to be stolen, he will call the police 
the next day to report the crime. Gulista and Sajid decide to take Tahirat 
his word and leave the market, promising to return the next day to find out 
what happens. But as they leave, neither of them can shake the feeling that 
something is not right about the whole situation…. 

We are on holiday in Bangalore. We have known each other for several 
years, since university. Gulista is an art historian and I am a author of crime 
and mystery books. We are in the hotel on the first day of Our trip. It’s a hot 
and sunny day. 

Sajid: Morning Gulista! How did you sleep? 
Gulista: Great! You? 
Sajid: Yeah, me too. What do you want to do today? 
Gulista: Hmm…. I feel like going to a market! 
Sajid: Great! A food market? 
Gulista: No, I want to go to an antiques market. 
Sajid: Sounds good. Do you know of one? 
Gulista: No, I’ll have a look on my phone…. There’s one in KR Market. 
Sajid: Perfect. Does it open on Saturdays? 
Gulista: Yes, it opens early morning every Saturday. It’s 11 now. 
Sajid: Perfect! Where is it? 
Gulista: Funnily enough, it’s in an area called KR, in North Bangalore…. It’s a bit far. We can get a cab. 
Sajid: Sounds good. Let’s go! We leave the hotel and look for a cab to go to KR Market. 
Gulista: I don’t see any cabs. Do you? 
Sajid: There’s one! Put your hand out. 
Gulista: Hello! 
Cab driver: Hello! Where are you going? 
Sajid: We are going to KR Market. 
Cab driver: KR Market. Ok, jump in. You’ve got everything there. What are you going to buy? 
Gulista: Well, I’m an art historian, so I love antiques. 
Cab driver: How interesting! Bangalore is a city full of art. Are you an art historian too? 
Sajid: No, I’m a writer. 
Cab driver: Wow! What do you write? 
Sajid: I write crime and mystery books. 
Cab driver: How interesting! There are also mysteries in KR Market…. 
Sajid: Really? 
Cab driver: Of course! There are many stolen objects in KR Market.… 


We arrive at KR Market. 



Sajid: Wow! Look at all this stuff(items) Gulista. 
Gulista: It’s amazing! There are so many shops, and loads of people. 
Sajid: Look at this watch! Is it an antique? 
Gulista: Yes, it looks very old. 
Sajid: And that painting? Is it an original? 
Gulista: It looks like an original. 
Sajid: Do you think it’s expensive? 
Gulista: I don’t think so. Let’s ask.… Good morning. How much does that painting cost? 
Seller: Good morning. It costs 5000 rupees. Are you interested? 
Sajid: No thanks. We were just wondering. 
Gulista: And this watch, how much is it? 
Seller: The watch costs 1300 rupees. It’s very old. 
Gulista: Thanks! 
Sajid: Do you think it’s stolen? 
Gulista: I don’t know. Maybe! There’s no way of knowing. 
Sajid: Look at that small shop. It looks interesting. Do you want to go in? 
Gulista: Of course, let’s go. We enter a small antiques shop in KR Market. 
Tahir: Good morning! 
Gulista andSajid: Good morning! 
Tahir:My name is Tahir. Welcome to my shop. Let meknow if you have any questions. 
Gulista: Nice to meet you. We are just going to have a look around. Great! 
Sajid: Wow, so many beautiful items. There are so many works of art. 
Do you like them? 
Gulista: Yes, it’s really beautiful stuff; paintings, sculptures, drawings, books… even comics! 
Sajid: Do you think some of them could be stolen? 
Gulista: Ha ha ha! I don’t know. Why? 
Sajid: I like mysteries! 
Gulista: There are no mysteries here, Sajid, just art…. Wait! Look at this! I can’t believe it! 



In a shop in KR Market, Gulista sees some drawings that catch her eye. 



Gulista: I know these drawings! They are by Turner. 
Sajid: Who is Turner? 
Gulista: William Turner was an English painter in the 18th century. One of the most important painters in British history! 
Sajid: Are you sure that these drawings are by him? 
Gulista: Yes, I’m sure. I studied them at university. 
Sajid: Do you think they are originals? 
Gulista: I’m almost certain. They look like originals…. But I can’t believe it! What are they doing here? They only cost 5000! 
Sajid: Should they be in a museum? 
Gulista: Yes, they should be in a museum, a gallery or a collection. 
Sajid: What should we do? 
Gulista: I don’t know. Should we ask the shop owner? 
Sajid: Yes, that’s a good idea. We show Tahir the drawings that we found in his shop and



Gulista explains that she thinks they are originals by Turner. 



Tahir: You are telling me that these drawings are by Turner?! 
Gulista: Yes, I’m almost certain. I’m an art historian. I know Turner’s work. I know his paintings and his drawings. These are by Turner. I can’t believe it! 
Sajid: What are they doing here? How did they get here? 
Tahir: I don’t know. Lots of people bring me works of art. I buy them and sell them to people who visit the shop. 
Sajid: Do you remember who brought these drawings? 
Tahir: Yes, I believe it was a man…. I don’t remember what he looked like. 
Sajid: When did he bring you them? 
Tahir: This morning. Just a few hours ago. 
Gulista: Do you think the drawings are stolen? 
Tahir:It’s possible! 


Tahir tells us that he has an idea for the Turner drawings.


Sajid: What should we do? 
Tahir:I have an idea! I have a friend who is also an art historian. He’s an expert in British art. His name is Azad. He can tell you if the works really are by Turner. If they are, we will call the police. 
Gulista: Okay, that sounds good. 
Sajid: That’s a great idea. 
Tahir:I’ll call him right now…. Hello? Hi, Azad. I need a favour. Can you come to the shop? I have some drawings that appear to be original works by Turner. Yes, William Turner! Okay, I’ll see you then. Bye! 
Sajid: Is your friend coming now? 
Tahir:He says he’s out of town. But he’ll come by tomorrow. Do you want to come as well? 
Gulista: Yes, that sounds good. I want to meet this expert and look at the works with him. 
Tahir:Well, see you tomorrow. 
Gulista and Sajid: See you tomorrow! 


We leave the shop to go back to the hotel. Before getting a cab, I tells 


Gulista that someone caught My attention in the shop. 
Sajid: There was a strange man in the shop. 
Gulista:  You mean Tahir?
Sajid: No. There was another man, a customer. 
Gulista: What did he look like? 
Sajid: He was tall and he was wearing a hat…. There he is! He’s the one leaving the shop now. 
Gulista: Do you think there’s something suspicious about him? 
Sajid: I don’t know. There is definitely something strange about him…. 
Gulista: Do you think he’s the thief? 
Sajid: I don’t know, but I’m worried. 
Gulista: Why are you worried? 
Sajid: Because that man in the hat knows that there are very valuable drawings in the shop. 


The next day, back at the hotel, Sajid and Gulista are watching TV. The 
presenter announces breaking news. 
TV Presenter: Works of art stolen in the centre of Bangalore! Valuable 
drawings by William Turner have disappeared(Gayab ho gyi) from a private 
collection. 



Gulista: I can’t believe it! It’s the three drawings from the shop!
Sajid: It is! They are exactly the same; there’s the drawing of a large church, the drawing of a boat on the shore and the drawing of a sleeping cat.
TV Presenter: So far there has been no trace of the thief, and the whereabouts of the drawings is unknown. The owner of the collection, Lawrence Windsor, is offering a large reward for the safe return of the works. A police investigation is under way.
Gulista: What should we do?
Sajid: Should we call the police?
Gulista: No, let’s go to Tahir’s shop. We’ll call the police from there.
Sajid: Okay, that makes sense. That way, no one will think he’s a suspect.
Narration: When we arrive at the shop, they see that the police have already arrived. The shop windows are broken. Mr. Tahir looks very upset.
Gulista: Hello, Mr. Tahir.
Tahir: Here you are! Detective, these are the couple from yesterday.
Sajid: What’s going on?
Tahir: They are witnesses; the drawings were here yesterday. Someone stole them from the shop!
Gulista: Really?
Tahir: She is an art historian. She can confirm that the drawings are by William Turner.
Gulista: Yes, I’m sure. They are the drawings from Lawrence Windsor’s private collection! It’s all over the news.
Detective Smith: Hello, I’m Detective Smith. Nice to meet you. Do you know who the thief is?
Gulista: No, I don’t.
Sajid: Maybe it’s the man with the hat.
Detective Smith: The man with the hat?
Sajid: Yes, a man in a hat was in the shop yesterday.
Detective Smith: Okay, well let’s investigate him!
Narration: We go to a café to talk about the stolen drawings.
Waiter: Good morning, what can I get you?
Gulista: Good morning. I would like a white coffee.
Sajid: I’ll have a breakfast muffin, please.
Waiter: Great! I will bring it all over.
Gulista: So, what do you think about the case?
Sajid: Well… There are two robberies. Yesterday someone stole the drawings from Lawrence Windsor’s house. Today… or last night, someone stole them from Tahir’s shop.
Gulista: Do you think it’s the same person?
Sajid: Maybe! Perhaps (Sayad) the person who stole them from Lawrence Windsor’s house didn’t know how much they were worth. They are very valuable, but the person sold them for a small amount. So, after hearing about the robbery on TV, they found out the real price and went back to steal them again.
Gulista: There could also be a second thief.
Sajid: That’s true. Someone who overheard us in the shop…
Gulista: Someone like the mysterious man in the hat?
Narration: The waiter takes our order over to our table. The news about the robbery at Lawrence Windsor’s mansion is on the TV.
Sajid: Thank you. Could you bring us some sugar?
Waiter: Right away.
Sajid: What should we do now?
Gulista: Well, nothing! Why do you want to do something? Detective Smith is working on the case.
Sajid: But it’s fun! I think we should go to Lawrence Windsor’s house.
Waiter: Sorry for butting in (Maaf karna bich me tokne ke liye), but Lawrence Windsor doesn’t live in a house. He lives in a mansion!
Gulista: Is he rich?
Waiter: Yes, very rich. He has a huge art collection.
Sajid: Do you know where he lives?
Waiter: Of course, it’s just down the road near Hampstead Heath. You can see his mansion from here.
Sajid: The bill, please!
Narration: After breakfast, we cross the road in the direction of Lawrence Windsor’s mansion to investigate the robbery of the drawings by Turner. We ring the bell and the owner comes to greet us.
Lawrence Windsor: Are you reporters?
Gulista: No, we are not reporters. We saw your drawings in a shop in KR Market.
Lawrence Windsor: You recognised the drawings?
Gulista and Sajid: Yes!
Lawrence Windsor: How is that possible?
Gulista: I am an art historian. I love Turner’s work. When I saw the drawings in Tahir’s shop, I recognised them at once! We studied Turner extensively at university, so I can spot his work anywhere.
Lawrence Windsor: Are you also an art historian?
Sajid: No. I am a writer.
Lawrence Windsor: What do you write about?
Sajid: I write stories about mysteries, robberies, crime. I like solving mysteries.
Lawrence Windsor: Very good! Come in. Would you like something to drink?
Narration: They are all sitting in the living room. Sajid asks Mr. Lawrence Windsor some questions about the stolen drawings.
Sajid: When did the robbery take place?
Lawrence Windsor: On Saturday, yesterday. I know because I saw the drawings on Friday night. Yesterday afternoon they were gone.
Sajid: Did you call the police?
Lawrence Windsor: Of course, straight away (Turant, Foran, Bina deri ke).
Sajid: Did you call the TV station as well?
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, I think it’s best that everyone knows. That way, I can offer a reward.
Gulista: You are offering a reward to whoever finds the drawings?
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, of course. I am offering teen thousand rupees as a reward! They announced it today on TV.
Sajid: We don’t care about your money, Mr. Windsor. We just want to help.
Gulista: It’s true. We don’t want any money. We just care about art.
Sajid: And mysteries!
Gulista: And mysteries of course!
Narration: Lawrence tells us everything about the robbery so that they can help him to get back the stolen drawings.
Sajid: Where do you keep your art collection?
Lawrence Windsor: In a large room on the second floor, let’s go up!
Sajid: Does the door of the room have a lock?
Lawrence Windsor: Of course.
Sajid: Who has the key to this room? 
Lawrence Windsor: I have the key. No one else. 
Sajid: Where do you keep the key? 
Lawrence Windsor: Here, on this golden chain that I always wear 
around my neck. 
Gulista: Wow! What an amazing room. There are so many paintings! 
Sajid: Are you a big fan of art, Mr. Windsor? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, more than anything in the world. Art is my 
life. I love my collection, and now I’m upset because it’s incomplete. 
Sajid asks Lawrence Windsor more questions while they look at the art 
collection. 
Sajid: Was the lock on the door broken? 
Lawrence Windsor: No, the police say that nothing was broken. 
Sajid: So someone took the key. 
Lawrence Windsor: Perhaps…. It would be tricky, but it’s possible. 
Sajid: Who else lives here? 
Lawrence Windsor: My daughter Mariana, my staff, and me. 
Sajid: How many staff do you have? 
Lawrence Windsor: Six people: a cleaner, a security guard, a gardener, 
two cooks and my daughter’s nanny. Do you think the thief is someone inside 
the house? 
Sajid: I don’t know. It’s possible. It’s someone who doesn’t know how 
much the drawings are worth. They were on sale in KR Market for 5000 
rupees! But they must be worth thousands! 
Lawrence Windsor: I really hope the thief isn’t someone from inside the 
house! 
While Sajid asks Lawrence Windsor some questions, a young girl enters 
the room. She is 12 years old, very tall and has blonde hair and dark brown 
eyes. 
Lawrence Windsor: Mariana! Come here. I want to introduce you to these 
this couple. This is Gulista, she is an art historian. She loves art, just like us. 
Mariana Windsor: Hello, Gulista. 
Gulista: Hello, Mariana, it’s nice to meet you. 
Lawrence Windsor: And this is Sajid. He is a writer and knows a lot about 
robberies and mysteries. 
Sajid: Nice to meet you. 
Mariana Windsor: And you. 
Lawrence Windsor: They saw the drawings in KR Market yesterday and 
now they are helping us to find them… and to catch the thief! 
Mariana Windsor: Do you know who stole the drawings?! 
Sajid: No, not yet. But I am certain we are going to find out. 
Mariana Windsor: Have you found any clues yet? 
Sajid: A few…. Wait, how did you get in? Do you have a key to this 
room as well? 
Lawrence Windsor: Ah yes, I forgot to mention it. Mariana is the only 
other person who has a key. 
We chat with Lawrence and Mariana about the disappearance of the 
drawings. 
Sajid: Did anyone ask you for the key, Mariana? 
Mariana Windsor: No…. I always have it on me. 
Lawrence Windsor: Mariana is very careful. She knows how important 
my art collection is. Isn’t that right? She even has her own collection. 
Mariana Windsor: Yes! I have a collection of comics. 
Sajid: Comics? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, comics and comic books! From all over the 
world; the United States, Japan, France, Argentina. I have both old and new 
ones. 
Gulista: How interesting! I love comics. Can I see your collection? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, of course. Come with me. I’ll show you. 
Mariana Windsor shows Gulista her collection of comic books. She has 
a large room with huge bookcases filled with comics. 
Gulista: It’s an amazing collection! 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, it’s my passion. I have been collecting comic 
books since I was five. 
Gulista: Wow! It’s amazing. Where do you buy them? 
Mariana Windsor: I get the most common ones in comic bookshops. If 
they are rare comics, I buy them in antiques markets. 
Gulista: You mean like the antiques market in KR Market? 
Mariana Windsor: Umm.… Yes, sometimes I buy them there. It’s not 
too far from my house. 
Gulista: Have you ever seen a man in a hat in KRMarket? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes…. I think I know who you’re talking about; a 
tall man in a black hat, right? 
Sajid and Lawrence Windsor go down to the living room to talk more 
about the staff, while Gulista stays in the room with Mariana. 
Sajid: I would like to talk some more about your staff. Is that okay? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, of course. That’s not a problem. 
Sajid: Who is the cleaner? 
Lawrence Windsor: The cleaner is called Charlie. Charlie is Welsh and 
I have known him my whole life. His father was a friend of my father. 
Sajid: Do you think he could be the thief? 
Lawrence Windsor: I don’t think so. He’s a good guy and I trust him a 
lot. 
Sajid: Okay. Did Charlie see anything strange that day? 
Lawrence Windsor: Why don’t you ask him? I’ll call him down. 
While Gulista looks at Mariana’s comic book collection, she sees a 
metal box that catches her eye. 
Gulista: What’s in that box? 
Mariana Windsor: My most precious comic is in there. Do you want to 
see it? 
Gulista: Yes, I would like to see it. 
Mariana Windsor: Look…. 
Gulista: Oh! Is it very old? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, it’s more than a hundred years old. It’s from the 
United States. It’s called Little Nemo in Slumberland. 
Gulista: What is it about? 
Mariana Windsor: It’s about a boy who has strange dreams. 
Gulista: Wow, I bet it’s expensive. How much did it cost? 
Mariana Windsor: Umm…. I don’t know. I don’t remember. 
Gulista: How come you don’t know? Did you buy it a long time ago? 
Mariana Windsor: I think it’s time to go back to my father. 
Lawrence Windsor calls Charlie down, the cleaner of the house. Charlie 
enters the room, where Sajid and Lawrence are having tea. He sits with them, 
and Sajid asks him questions about the day of the robbery. 
Sajid: Charlie, Mr. Windsor says you are Welsh. 
Charlie: Yes, I’m from Cardiff! 
Sajid: Like my father. *Bore da! 
Charlie: Great! Bore da. 
Sajid: Okay, if you don’t mind, let’s talk about the day of the robbery. 
Did anything strange happen? 
Charlie: It was yesterday, right? 
Sajid: Yes, it was yesterday, Saturday. 
Charlie: Everything was normal; nothing out of the ordinary…. Except 
one thing. 
Sajid: What? 
Charlie: When I was cleaning downstairs, I heard someone opening the 
coat wardrobe. 
Sajid: Why is that strange? 
Charlie: Because it was so hot yesterday! Who needs a coat when it’s so 
hot? 
Sajid: What time was that? 
Charlie: At 10:30 in the morning…. 
*Bore da! “Good day” or “Good morning” in Welsh 
Once Charlie leaves the room, Sajid tells Lawrence Windsor what she 
thinks about Charlie. 
Sajid: He seems like a good guy! He’s very smart. 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, he is a good guy. He is very intelligent. 
Sajid: Did you look for something in the coat wardrobe? 
Lawrence Windsor: No, it wasn’t me. 
Sajid: Now, tell me about the gardener. What’s his name? Where is he 
from? 
Lawrence Windsor: The gardener is called Artur. He’s Polish. He is 
thirty years old. He hasn’t been working here for long. 
Sajid: How long has he been working here, exactly? 
Lawrence Windsor: He has been working here for six months. He is an 
excellent gardener. He looks after the plants very well. He loves his job. 
Sajid: Do you think the gardener could be the thief? 
Lawrence Windsor: I don’t think so. He seems trustworthy. He’s a good 
person. Moreover(eske alwa), he almost never comes inside the house. 
Sajid: Great. Maybe he can tell us something helpful about the robbery. 
Lawrence Windsor: I hope so! I’ll call him. 
The gardener, Artur, enters the room. Sajid asks him several questions 
about the day of the robbery. Artur is tall and slim and has brown hair. He 
wears glasses, which are broken and have been stuck together with tape. 
Sajid: Good morning, Artur. 
Artur: Good morning! 
Sajid: My name is Sajid. I am investigating the robbery. Can I ask you 
some questions? 
Artur: Sure! No problem. Are you a police officer? 
Sajid: No, I’m not a police officer. I’m just helping Mr. Windsor. 
Artur: Very well. What would you like to know? 
Sajid: I just want to know if anything unusual happened in the house 
yesterday, the day of the robbery. 
Artur: Hmm…. Yes, I think I saw something strange…. But I’m not sure. 
Sajid: Why aren’t you sure? 
Artur: See my glasses? They’re broken! They broke yesterday morning 
while I was working. So I couldn’t see very well. 
Sajid: What did you see? 
Artur: It was a very hot and sunny day. However, around 10:30 in the 
morning I think I saw someone leave the house wearing a big coat and a hat. 
Sajid: A hat?! 
Artur: Yes, I couldn’t see very well, but I’m almost certain. 
Artur leaves the room and Sajid tells Lawrence what she thinks about the 
person with the coat and the hat. 
Lawrence Windsor: Why are you surprised by a person wearing a hat? 
Sajid:  
We saw a tall man wearing a hat in Tahir’s shop.
 Lawrence Windsor: Really? 
Sajid: Yes! Do you know a tall man that always wears a hat? 
Lawrence Windsor: Hmm…. No, no one comes to mind. Wait! Now I 
remember. There was a tall man wearing a hat near the house yesterday. But 
I think he is a reporter. Do you think he’s the thief? 
Sajid: 
I don’t know. But we saw a tall man in a hat in Tahir’s shop
 before the robbery. 
Lawrence Windsor: Maybe it’s the thief! 
Sajid: Yes, I think it could be. 
Then, Lawrence Windsor calls down the two cooks, Liz and Jacob, who 
are married. Both of them are around 60 years old. They have been working 
with Lawrence Windsor’s family since they were young. They care for 
Lawrence a lot. He is like a son to them. 
Liz: Good morning. 
Sajid: Hello! It’s a pleasure to meet you. 
Jacob: The pleasure is ours. 
Sajid: I would like to know if you saw something strange yesterday, on 
the day of the robbery, something out of the ordinary. 
Liz: Hmm…. I don’t think so. Everything was the same as usual. What do 
you think, Jacob? 
Jacob: It was a very quiet day. We didn’t cook anything until the evening. 
Sajid: No one ate before dinner? 
Lawrence Windsor: I didn’t have lunch at home because I went out to 
visit some friends. 
Sajid: And Mariana? 
Liz: I spoke with Mariana at midday. She wasn’t hungry. She was very 
excited about a new comic…. That girl loves her comics! She reminds me of 
her father with his art collection. 
Sajid: Okay. One last question. Is it the first time that things have 
disappeared from the house? 
Liz: No, come to think of it, it’s not! Things have been disappearing a lot 
lately. Just a week ago, a beautiful and very valuable silver salt shaker 
disappeared…. 
Once Liz and Jacob leave the room, Sajid asks Lawrence Windsor a few 
questions. 
Sajid: Liz and Jacob are a very nice couple. 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, they are part of the family. I care about them a 
lot. 
Sajid: Is it normal for Mariana to skip lunch? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, sometimes she’s not hungry, especially when 
she has a new comic book to read. 
Sajid: Do you buy her comics? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, we always fight about it. 
Sajid: Why? 
Lawrence Windsor: Because she always wants very expensive comic 
books. She spends a lot of money on them. I tell her to be more careful. I 
know her collection is important to her, but she’s just a girl. She shouldn’t 
spend so much money on comics. 
Sajid: Do you fight about it often? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, a few days ago we had a big fight over a very 
expensive comic that she wanted to buy. It was far too much money for a 
comic if you ask me! 
Next, Lawrence Windsor calls down Mariana’s nanny. The nanny is 
called Pauline. She is twenty years old. Her hair is black and curly and she 
has dark skin and green eyes. 
Sajid: Hi, Pauline. So, you are Mariana’s nanny? 
Pauline: Hi! Yes, I am. 
Sajid: Do you spend the whole day with her? 
Pauline: During summer I usually spend all day with her. The rest of the 
year she spends most of the day at school. While she’s at school, I go to 
university. I am studying teaching. One day I will be a teacher to lots of kids 
like Mariana! 
Sajid: That’s great. What about on the weekends? 
Pauline: On the weekends Mariana usually stays in her bedroom. She 
never wants to go out. 
Sajid: What does she do in there? 
Pauline: She reads her comic books. She loves those comic books more 
than anything. 
Sajid: Did anything strange happen yesterday? 
Pauline: I don’t know! I wasn’t home at all yesterday. I went to Oxford to 
visit my parents. 
When Pauline leaves the room, Sajid asks Lawrence some questions. 
Sajid: Pauline seems like a good nanny. But it is normal that Mariana is 
alone in the house, like she was yesterday? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes. Not often, but it does happen sometimes. 
Mariana is old enough to stay by herself. Moreover, our security guard is 
always at home, along with Liz, Jacob and the others. 
Sajid: Who is the security guard? What is his name? Where is he? 
Lawrence Windsor: The security guard is called Daniel. He is 
Portuguese, but he speaks very good English. 
Sajid: How old is he? 
Lawrence Windsor: He is around forty. 
Sajid: Has he worked here long? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, he has worked here for five years. 
Sajid: Is he good at his job? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, he’s very good at his job. His main task is to 
control the security cameras. There has never been a robbery at the house… 
until yesterday! 
Lawrence calls Daniel, the security guard, so that Sajid can ask him 
some questions. 
Sajid: Hello! I have a few questions about yesterday, if that’s not a 
problem. 
Daniel: Sure. That’s not a problem. 
Sajid: To start, did anything strange happen yesterday? 
Daniel: I don’t remember anything strange. I was watching the cameras 
all day. No one strange is seen entering the house in the video footage. 
Sajid: Does anyone else have a key, apart from the other employees? 
Daniel: No. Only those who work here have a key, apart from Mr. 
Lawrence and the girl. 
Sajid: I see. Do you think we can see the recordings from the security 
cameras? 
Daniel: Of course, no problem! I will get the tablet which has everything 
on it. 
Daniel looks for the tablet which has the video footage from the security 
cameras. The footage shows everyone who goes in and out of the house. 
Sajid: Did anyone leave the house on Friday night? 
Daniel: No, no one leaves the house until Saturday morning. 
Sajid: Who was the first person to leave the house on Saturday? 
Daniel: Pauline was the first person to leave. There she is. She leaves the 
house at around 9:00 in the morning. 
Sajid: She was going to Oxford to visit her parents. 
Daniel: Then, at 10:00, Mr. Lawrence leaves. 
Sajid: He was going to visit some friends. 
Lawrence Windsor: Exactly! 
Daniel: Then, Charlie leaves at 10:30. You can’t see his face, but that’s 
his coat and hat… though I don’t know why he was wearing a coat. It was so 
hot that day. 
Sajid: That’s not Charlie! He was inside, cleaning. 
Daniel: Really? Wait… let’s look at the downstairs camera. You’re right! 
There’s Charlie, cleaning. 
Lawrence Windsor: So who is the person leaving the house wearing a 
hat? 
Sajid: Someone who doesn’t want to be seen by the cameras! 
Sajid, Daniel and Lawrence Windsor look at the video footage of the 
security cameras from the day before. Someone leaves the house wearing a 
coat and hat. Their face can’t be seen. 
Sajid: Let’s carry on. Does anyone else leave the house? 
Daniel: No. A while later, at 11am, the person in the hat returns to the 
house. It’s someone who lives here! They have a key. 
Sajid: So it seems. Then who enters? 
Daniel: Mr. Lawrence comes back around 2pm, and then Pauline returns 
at around 5pm. 
Sajid: Lawrence, what time did you realise that the drawings were 
missing? 
Lawrence Windsor: Around six in the evening. I visit my collection every 
evening at that time. I immediately noticed something was wrong. The 
Turner drawings were missing! 
Daniel: At 6:30pm you can see the police arriving at the house. 
Sajid: Look! There with the police… there is a man wearing a hat! 
Sajid, Daniel and Lawrence Windsor continue to watch the video footage 
from the security cameras from the day before. They wonder who the man in 
the hat with the police is. 
Lawrence Windsor: Do you think it’s the same person who left the 
house, Sajid? 
Sajid: I don’t think so. This person is outside. The other person is inside. 
It can’t be the same person. 
Lawrence Windsor: Do you think there are two people in hats, then? 
Sajid: Yes, maybe. Look at the video recordings; the man with the hat is 
talking with the police. 
Lawrence Windsor: Maybe he is a detective. Do you think he is a 
detective? 
Sajid: Yes, maybe. He looks a lot like the man in the hat who was in 
Tahir’s shop that morning.... I think it’s the same person.
When Daniel leaves, Lawrence and Sajid reflect on what they have 
discovered. 
Sajid: Okay, what do we know so far? 
Lawrence Windsor: To start, we know that the drawings disappeared on 
Saturday morning. 
Sajid: 
Gulista and I saw the drawings in Tahir’s shop in Camden
 Market on Saturday around 11:30. 
Lawrence Windsor: Camden Market is very close to the house. The 
person who took the drawings could have taken them, sold them in the shop 
and returned back to the house. 
Sajid: Only three people left the house on Saturday before 11am: you, 
Pauline and the mysterious person in the coat and hat. 
Lawrence Windsor: That person took Charlie’s coat and hat so that they 
could leave the house without their face being seen on the cameras. 
35. Gulista and Mariana Windsor return 
The door to the living room opens. It’s Mariana and Gulista. 
Lawrence Windsor: Hi, Darling. Did you show Gulista your comic 
book collection? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, Dad. 
Gulista: Mariana has a beautiful collection…. It’s very extensive. 
Sajid: Mariana, can I ask you a quick question? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes. 
Lawrence Windsor: Sure, go ahead. 
Sajid: Did you leave the house at any point yesterday? 
Mariana Windsor: No, I didn’t leave the house at all. 
Sajid: Okay. Did you hear anyone in the coat wardrobe? 
Mariana Windsor: Umm… Yes! I think I heard someone take a coat 
and hat from there in the morning. 
Sajid: Great! Okay. Thanks, Mariana. 
36. The promise 
Gulista and Sajid get up to go back to the hotel. 
Lawrence Windsor: You’re very kind, both of you. I hope we find the 
thief. Those works of art are very valuable. They are worth hundreds of 
thousands of pounds. And they are very important to me. They are my most 
prized possession. 
Gulista: We are happy to help. Thank you for letting us be a part of this. 
Art is very important to me too. 
Sajid: I promise that we will do everything we can to find your stolen 
drawings, Mr. Windsor. 
Lawrence Windsor: If you do, you’ll receive a large reward. 
Sajid: That’s not necessary. We’re not doing it for the money. 
Gulista: We’ll be in touch. We’ll let you know if we get any news. 
Lawrence Windsor: Okay, thanks. Good luck! 
37. Sajid tells Gulista what she knows 
When they leave the house, Sajid tells Gulista everything she has found 
out. 
Sajid: I spoke with all the house staff. 
Gulista: With all of them? Who are they? 
Sajid: There are six: Charlie, the cleaner; Artur, the gardener; Liz and 
Jacob, the cooks; Pauline, the nanny; and Daniel, the security guard. 
Gulista: Okay. Do any of them seem suspicious? 
Sajid: No, none of them seem suspicious really. All of them are very nice. 
They answered all my questions. 
Gulista: What did they tell you? 
Sajid: The security cameras show that the thief is someone from the house. 
Only three people came out of the house on Saturday: Lawrence Windsor, 
the nanny and someone who leaves wearing Charlie’s coat and hat. 
Gulista: Is it the man in the hat who was in the shop? 
Sajid: I don’t think so. It’s someone from inside the house who took the 
coat and hat from the wardrobe. Charlie and Mariana both confirmed that 
someone went in the coat wardrobe. They heard it. 
Gulista: You already know a lot about the case. You’re a good detective. 
Sajid: Thanks. What have you found out? 
38. Gulista tells Sajid what she knows 
Gulista and Sajid continue talking about what they know. They are 
walking by the fence, outside Lawrence Windsor’s mansion. 
Gulista: Mariana’s comic collection is huge. You can tell that she loves 
comics just as much as her father loves the Turner drawings. 
Sajid: Don’t you think that Mariana behaves a bit strangely? 
Gulista: I agree. She does behave strangely. When I asked her about the 
cost of one of her comic books, she got awkward. Do you think we should 
call her a suspect? 
Sajid: I don’t know. Maybe she knows something and doesn’t want to say. 
Gulista: Why do you think she isn’t telling us everything she knows? 
Sajid: She could be protecting someone. 
Gulista: Who? The thief? 
Sajid: It’s possible. The thief is one of the three people seen on the 
cameras: the mysterious person, the nanny or even her father! 
39. There he is again! 
Just as they are getting further away from the house, Gulista can’t 
believe what she sees…. 
Gulista: Sajid, look! It’s the man in the hat! It’s the same man from 
Tahir’s shop!
Sajid: It’s true. It’s him! In the video footage, that man can be seen with 
the police. Maybe he’s a detective. 
Gulista: He looks very suspicious to me. What is he doing here? 
Sajid: I don’t know, but I want to find out. Let’s go and talk to him. 
Gulista: Are you crazy, Sajid? 
Sajid: Let’s go. He’s getting further away! Run! 
Gulista: You are definitely crazy…. 
Sajid: He is running as well. I think he saw us. He is trying to get away. 
Gulista: He is heading towards Camden Market. There are a lot of 
people and shops there. It will be difficult to find him.... 
40. Following the man in the hat 
Inside Camden Market, Gulista and Sajid follow the man in the hat. He 
walks very quickly among people, stalls and shops. 
Gulista: I don’t see him. Do you? 
Sajid: No. I lost him. I know! Let’s go to the terrace of this cafe. From up 
there we will able to see better. 
Gulista: Are you sure? This is crazy…. 
Sajid: Yes, let’s go. 
Gulista: You were right! From up here you can see the whole market. 
Sajid: Look, there he is! 
Gulista: He is going down that alleyway. 
Sajid: Let’s follow him! 
41. The alleyway 
Sajid and Gulista follow the man in the hat into an alleyway in Camden 
Market. In the alleyway, there are three shops and they don’t know which 
one he has gone into. One is a watch shop, another is a furniture shop and 
the third is a bookshop. 
Gulista: Where do you think he is? 
Sajid: He must be in one of these three shops. I am not sure which one he 
went into. 
Gulista: Do you think he is in the watch shop? 
Sajid: No, I don’t think he is inside the watch shop. 
Gulista: Maybe he went into the furniture shop…. 
Sajid: I don’t think he’s there either. 
Gulista: So he must be in the bookshop. 
Sajid: Yes…. I think that’s the most likely. 
Gulista: Should we go inside and see? 
Sajid: Yes, let’s look for him! 
42. The bookshop 
Gulista and Sajid go into the bookshop and, between the bookcases, they 
see the man in the hat sitting at a table and reading a book. He seems to be 
waiting for them. 
Sajid: There he is! 
Man in the hat: Sajid, Gulista, I’ve been waiting for you. 
Gulista: How do you know our names?! 
Man in the hat: I know many things…. 
Sajid: What is your name? 
Man in the hat: I can’t tell you my name, yet. 
Sajid: Can we sit down? 
Man in the hat: Yes, of course. Take a seat. We have a lot to talk about. 
Sajid: Are you following us? 
Man in the hat: In fact, I believe it is you two who are following me. 
Sajid: Well… that’s true. But only because you are always around when 
strange things happen. 
Man in the hat: Strange things? Like what? 
Sajid: Like the robbery of the Turner drawings at Lawrence Windsor’s 
mansion. And the robbery of the same drawings at Tahir’s shop.
43. Face to face with the man in the hat 
Sajid and Gulista talk to the man in the hat inside a bookshop in 
Camden Market. 
Man in the hat:  
So you saw me that day in Tahir’s shop.
Sajid: Yes, we saw you there. Then we saw you leave. 
Man in the hat: Okay. I see that you are very observant. 
Sajid: We also saw you in Lawrence Windsor’s house on the day of the 
robbery. 
Man in the hat: Really? How? 
Sajid: On the security cameras. In the video footage, you are talking to 
the police. 
Man in the hat: Yes, of course. It’s true. You are very observant! 
Gulista: Do you have anything to do with the robbery? 
Man in the hat: I am not the thief, that’s for sure. 
Gulista: Are you a police officer? 
Man in the hat: No, I’m not a police officer. 
Gulista: Are you a detective, then? 
Man in the hat: No, not exactly. 
Sajid: Then who are you? 
44. The Historians’ Club 
The man in the hat tells Sajid and Gulista that he is part of a team of 
expert investigators that solve mysteries around the world. 
Man in the hat: I am an investigator. 
Gulista: And what do you investigate? Crimes? Robberies? 
Man in the hat: Not exactly. I am part of a group. 
Sajid: A secret organisation? 
Man in the hat: Yes, it’s a secret organisation. We are called The 
Historians’ Club. 
Sajid: What do you do? 
Man in the hat: We solve mysteries. 
Gulista: What kind of mystery? 
Man in the hat: Well, we solve mysteries related to art history, 
archaeology and architecture. 
Gulista: Like the theft of the Turner drawings! 
Man in the hat: Exactly! 
45. What the man in the hat was doing 
at the market 
Gulista and Sajid share what they know about the man in the hat. 
Sajid: So, what do you know about the case? 
Man in the hat: First I’d like to hear what you two know. 
Sajid: Okay…. To start, we know that someone took the Turner drawings 
from Lawrence Windsor’s house on Saturday. 
Man in the hat: At what time? 
Sajid: Before 11:30. 
Man in the hat: How do you know? 
Sajid: 
Because at roughly 11:30, we saw the drawings in Tahir’s
 shop. 
Man in the hat: Well done! I know, as I was also there…. 
Gulista: What were you doing there? 
Man in the hat: Honestly, I was investigating some stolen art. There are 
lots of stolen works of art in Camden Market. I wanted to see who was going 
to try and sell works of art in the shops, to try and catch some art thieves. 
Gulista: So you overheard our conversation by chance? 
Man in the hat: Absolutely! But I knew straight away that something 
fishy was going on…. 
46. What the man in the hat did next 
The man in the hat tells Gulista and Sajid what he did on the day of the 
robbery. 
Man in the hat: 
Yesterday,  in  Tahir ’s  shop,  I  overheard  your
 conversation about the Turner drawings. Then I went to find out which 
museums and private collections in the city had original Turner drawings. It 
turns out there is a private collection with a number of drawings in a mansion 
not too far from Camden Market. 
Gulista: Lawrence Windsor’s collection! 
Man in the hat: Exactly! I stayed near the house until the police came. 
Sajid: Do the police have any leads? 
Man in the hat: No, they have no idea who did it. Who do you two think 
it was? 
Sajid: Don’t forget that there could be two thieves! Someone took the 
drawings from the house.... But then someone stole them from Tahir’s
 shop. 
Man in the hat: Exactly! You are very smart, Sajid. 
47. The suspects 
The man in the hat talks to Gulista and Sajid about the suspects in the 
case. 
Man in the hat: If there are indeed two thieves, I think we should focus 
on the first thief. 
Sajid: We are almost certain that the first thief was someone from the 
house. On the security cameras you can see that the only people who leave 
the house are Lawrence Windsor, the nanny and someone else…. 
Man in the hat: Someone else? 
Sajid: Yes, someone covered up in a hat and a coat. Their face can’t be 
seen in the video footage. 
Man in the hat: Is it a man or a woman? 
Sajid: We don’t know! 
Man in the hat: What time do they leave the house? 
Sajid: At 10:30. 
Man in the hat: And do they come back later? 
Sajid: Yes, they return at 11. 
Man in the hat: So the first thief is definitely someone from the house! 
Sajid: Yes, but who? 
48. The man in the hat disappears 
Gulista and Sajid talk to the man in the hat in the bookshop. However, 
while they are talking, a sudden loud noise from behind makes Gulista and 
Sajid turn around. Several books have fallen off the shelves. When they turn 
back, the man in the hat is gone! 
Gulista: Where has the man in the hat gone? He was sat here a second 
ago. 
Sajid: He disappeared! As if by magic! 
Gulista: And who knocked those books down behind us? They scared 
the life out of me…. 
Sajid: I don’t know. Maybe someone was spying on us from behind the 
bookcase. 
Gulista: That’s scary! 
Sajid: Yes, this is a very strange case. Look at this…. 
Gulista: The book that the man in the hat was reading when we arrived; 
what’s special about it? 
Sajid: It’s not just any book, it’s a comic! 
49. Pauline at the market 
Gulista and Sajid leave the bookshop. 
Gulista: Shall we go back to the hotel? It’s getting late. Maybe we can 
carry on investigating tomorrow morning. 
Sajid: The life of a detective is exhausting! 
Gulista: Hey, look who’s over there! 
Sajid: It’s Pauline, Mariana’s nanny! 
Gulista: Yes, do you think she comes to the market often? 
Sajid: Hmm…. I don’t know, let’s ask the seller. Excuse me, have you 
seen that woman around here before? 
Seller: Pauline? Yes, of course. She is always around here. 
Sajid: Does she buy a lot of antiques? 
Seller: Well… to be honest, I don’t think so. I’ve never seen her buy 
anything. 
Sajid: Thanks for your help. 
Gulista: It’s a bit suspicious, don’t you think? 
Sajid: Yes, I think it’s quite suspicious…. 
50. Back in Tahir’s shop
 Gulista and Sajid are very surprised to see Pauline in Camden Market. 
Gulista: It’s possible that Pauline comes here just because she likes 
antiques. 
Sajid: Yeah, of course. That doesn’t necessarily make her the thief. 
Gulista: 
Also, Tahir said that the person who brought him the
 drawings was a man.... 
Sajid: That’s true. Maybe we could go and ask him before going back to 
the hotel…. If you don’t mind. 
Gulista: Of course! I’m tired, but I don’t mind a slight detour…. Since 
we’re already here. 
Sajid: You’re great, Gulista! Thanks. 
Gulista: No need to thank me, Sajid. It’s been a lot of fun investigating 
this mystery with you. Let’s go! 
Sajid:  
Look, the shop windows are still broken. There’s Tahir.
Tahir:
 Should we go in? 
Gulista: Yes, let’s. 
Hi! How are you both? 
Tahir:
Sajid: Good, thanks. We don’t want to bother you. We just wanted to ask 
you again about the person who brought you the Turner drawings. 
Ah yes, that mysterious young woman…. 
Sajid: Woman?! Didn’t you say before that it was a man? 
51. The memory 
Tahir   accidentally  says  that  the  person  who  brought  the  Turner
 drawings to the shop was a woman, not a man. 
Gulista: Didn’t you say that it was a man that brought you the drawings? 
A mysterious man? 
Sajid: Yes, you did. I remember perfectly! You never mentioned a 
woman…. 
Tahir:
 That’s right…. I did say it was a man. But now I remember. 
It wasn’t a man who brought me the Turner drawings. It was a woman! 
Sajid: Why did you say it was a man? 
Tahir:
 My memory is very poor…. I couldn’t remember very well. 
Sajid: Hmm…. And now you remember? 
Tahir:
Tahir:
 Yes, now I remember. It was a woman. 
Sajid: Was it a woman with black curly hair and green eyes by any chance? 
Hmm…. Yes, it was! Now I remember; it was a woman with 
black curly hair and green eyes. 
52. Gulista and Sajid have doubts about 
Tahir
 Sajid and Gulista leave Tahir’s shop and take two city bikes to go
 to the hotel. While they ride, they talk about their doubts. 
Sajid: 
There’s something strange about Tahir’s behaviour, don’t
 you think? 
Gulista: Yes, definitely. 
Sajid: I don’t think he’s being completely honest with us. 
Gulista: Do you think he’s lying? 
Sajid: He could be lying. 
Gulista: Do you think he’s the thief? 
Sajid: No, I don’t think he’s the thief. The thief must be someone from 
the house. It can’t be Tahir.
Gulista: But perhaps he made a deal with someone in the house. 
Sajid: But then why would he be selling Turner’s works at such a low 
price? 
Gulista: That’s true. Even so, I think he’s lying. He’s hiding something. 
Sajid: I agree! Something suspicious is going on. 
Gulista: But everything points to Pauline being the thief…. 
Sajid: Yes, we have to find a way to prove it. 
53. In the pub 
Gulista and Sajid go to a pub in an area called Covent Garden. There 
they talk about the case. 
Waiter: Good evening, what can I get you? 
Sajid: I am so hungry! I think I’ll have the shepherd’s pie. 
Waiter: Would you like the same? 
Gulista: No, no, I’m not that hungry. I’ll just have a portion of chips. 
Waiter: Okay, I’ll bring you your food in a few minutes! 
Gulista: Thanks! 
Sajid: Okay, now we can sit calmly and think. 
Gulista: What are your thoughts? 
Sajid: Well, we suspect that Pauline could be the thief, but we are not sure. 
There is also the mysterious person who leaves the house wearing a coat and 
hat. He, or she, could also be the thief. 
Gulista: What can we do to find out whether Pauline is guilty or innocent? 
54. The plan 
In the pub, Gulista and Sajid look for a way to prove whether Pauline is 
the one who stole the Turner drawings. 
Sajid: I have an idea! It’s something that usually works in police crime 
novels. Tomorrow we’ll go to Lawrence Windsor’s house. We’ll ask him to 
gather together everyone in the house. 
Gulista: Okay…. Then what? 
Sajid: Once everyone is there, we will tell them what we know. 
Gulista: What do we know? 
Sajid: First, we’ll tell them that we know the thief is someone in the house. 
Then, we’ll tell them Tahir remembered that the person who brought
 the Turner drawings to his shop was a woman, not a man…. 
Gulista: Okay, what else? 
Sajid: 
We’ll  tell  them  that  Tahir   remembers  the  person’s  face
 perfectly. Then we’ll tell them that we will call him and ask him to tell us 
who the thief is… unless that person wants to confess everything. 
Gulista: Do you think that will work? And what if it doesn’t? 
Sajid: 
If no one says anything, we’ll call Tahir to see what he says....
 Waiter: Excuse me, here is your food. Enjoy! 
Sajid andGulista: Great! Thanks. 
55. Back in the Windsor’s house 
The next day, Gulista and Sajid go to the Windsor’s house once more. 
Lawrence Windsor: Hello! Nice to see you again. 
Sajid: Hello, Mr. Windsor! You too. 
Lawrence Windsor: Shall we go into the living room? 
Gulista: Sure! 
Sajid: Mr. Windsor, we have come because we have a plan. We think we 
know who the thief is. It’s someone in the house! 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, I thought it might be, but who? 
Sajid: That’s what the plan is for, to confirm whether it’s the person we 
think it is. 
Lawrence Windsor: Okay, what do we need to do? 
Gulista: You need to call everyone in the house. We’ll gather here in the 
living room. 
56. The test 
Charlie (the cleaner), Artur (the gardener), Liz and Jacob (the cooks), 
Daniel (the security guard), Pauline (the nanny) and Mariana Windsor come 
down to the living room. Everyone greets Gulista and Sajid and then they sit 
down. 
Liz: What’s going on? Have you discovered something about the robbery? 
Daniel: Do you know who it was that left the house in the hat and coat? 
Charlie: With my hat and coat. I didn’t leave the house all Saturday! 
Artur: Do you know where the Turner drawings are? 
Lawrence Windsor: Okay, calm down everyone. Gulista and Sajid have 
discovered a few things about the case. If we let them speak, they’ll tell us 
what they know. 
Sajid: That’s right. We know that the thief is someone in the house. 
Jacob: No! That’s impossible! 
Sajid: Yes, it’s someone from inside the house…. Someone here in this 
room! 
Charlie: How do you know? 
Gulista: The owner of the antiques shop where the drawings were found 
told us who took them…. 
57. Crying 
When Gulista says that they know who the thief is, Mariana Windsor 
begins to cry uncontrollably! 
Mariana Windsor: Okay, I admit it! I confess! It was me! 
All: WHAT!? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, I stole the drawings. I took Charlie’s coat and 
hat to hide from the cameras, and I took them to Tahir’s shop.
 Lawrence Windsor: Mariana, what are you talking about? You’re the 
thief? 
Mariana Windsor: I’m sorry, Dad. I’m so ashamed! I didn’t want to 
cause any trouble. 
Lawrence Windsor: But why? 
Mariana Windsor: I will tell you everything… A few months ago, we 
started arguing over money. I wanted to buy more comics for my collection, 
but you said I was spending too much. I always bought my comics at Camden 
Market. I used to go with Pauline in the afternoon. 
Gulista: That’s why the market sellers said they always see Pauline, even 
though she never buys anything. 
58. Mariana’s confession 
Mariana has confessed that she took the Turner drawings from the house. 
She is explaining why she did it to her father, Sajid, Gulista and all the house 
staff. 
Pauline: Of course, I just take Mariana there! I’m not interested in 
antiques. She always goes to buy her comics and I stay nearby, looking at the 
old objects for sale. 
Sajid: That makes sense! We were worried that Pauline was involved in 
the robbery. 
Pauline: Of course not! I would never steal from my boss. I love my job…. 
Lawrence Windsor: Carry on, Mariana. 
Mariana Windsor: 
I would almost always buy comics in Tahir ’s
 shop, but he started to charge me more and more for the comic books. When 
I told him that my father didn’t want to give me any more money to buy 
comics, he told me I could bring him a valuable object from the house.... 
Sajid:  
What? Tahir told you to steal from your father?
59. The trade-off 
Mariana Windsor explains that she stole the Turner drawings because 
she needed more money to buy comics for her collection. When her father 
stopped giving her money, Tahir told her she could take him valuable
 objects from the house in exchange…. 
Mariana Windsor: No! He didn’t ask me to steal. He told me that he 
made lots of trade-offs with his customers. 
Gulista: Trade-offs? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes, a trade-off, an exchange. He would give me a 
valuable object if I gave him one. 
Sajid: So you took him the drawings? 
Mariana Windsor: No, that was much later. First, I began to take him 
small objects, things that I found around the house. 
Sajid: Like what? 
Mariana Windsor: I don’t know, a book from the library, a watch, an 
old salt shaker…. 
Liz: You took the silver salt shaker! 
Mariana Windsor: I’m sorry! I wasn’t thinking! 
60. Little Nemo 
Mariana tells everyone about the trade-offs she made with Tahir.
 One day, a very valuable comic arrives at the shop and Mariana must bring 
him something very valuable in exchange. 
Mariana Windsor: Then, one day, a very special comic arrived at the 
shop…. 
Gulista: Little Nemo in Slumberland. 
Mariana Windsor: Exactly. An original edition, in English, signed by the 
author! I had to have it. Tahir saved it specially for me.
 Lawrence Windsor: Was it the time that you asked me for a hundred 
pounds to buy a comic? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes! But obviously you didn’t give me the money. I 
was so angry. I needed to get that comic book. 
Sajid: So then what happened? 
Mariana Windsor: I took various things to the shop to trade, but nothing 
was good enough for Mr. Green. He said that I had to take him something 
more valuable. So then I decided to take something from my father’s art 
collection…. 
61. Mariana, regretful 
Mariana explains the details of how she took the works of art from her 
father’s collection. 
Lawrence Windsor: I can’t believe it! 
Mariana Windsor: I’m sorry, Dad. I really regret it. On that day, in the 
morning, I took advantage of the fact that Pauline had left the house. Then 
you left too. I took the key to the art collection and opened the door. Then, I 
took the drawings because I knew they were valuable, but I didn’t know how 
much they were worth. I even thought you might not notice, because you 
already have so many in your collection…. 
Lawrence Windsor: Of course I noticed! I noticed immediately. Those 
drawings are worth hundreds of thousands of pounds. They are the most 
valuable items in my collection! 
Mariana Windsor: I know that now. I didn’t know they were so 
valuable…. They were just drawings, so I thought they wouldn’t be much 
more expensive than an old comic book. After grabbing the drawings, I took 
Charlie’s coat and hat so that Daniel wouldn’t see me on the security cameras. 
62. Mariana’s plea to Tahir
 As well as revealing how she stole the drawings, Mariana explains to 
Sajid, Gulista and her father why Tahir didn’t say anything.
 Mariana Windsor: 
I took everything to Tahir’s shop. He was so
 happy with the drawings, and he gave me Little Nemo in exchange. 
Sajid: 
Mariana, why didn’t Tahir tell us it was you? First, he said it
 was a man; then, that it was a woman with black hair and green eyes like 
Pauline. Why did he lie? 
Mariana Windsor: That’s my fault as well! After all the drama about the 
robbery, I asked Pauline if we could go to Camden Market for a bit. I went 
to Tahir’s shop and begged him not to say anything.
 Pauline: It’s true, we went in the afternoon. 
Gulista: Yes, we saw you there. 
Mariana Windsor: I saw you two as well, in a bookshop, talking to a man 
in a hat. 
Sajid: It was you spying on us in the shop! 
Mariana Windsor: I just wanted to know if you suspected me. I’m sorry. 
I’m so sorry! 
63. Forgiveness 
While Mariana cries uncontrollably, Lawrence Windsor assures his 
daughter that there’s nothing to worry about. 
Lawrence Windsor: Mariana, it’s not your fault. You made a mistake…. 
A big one. But I know you didn’t mean to hurt me. You didn’t think about 
the consequences. Don’t cry, everything’s okay. 
Sajid: It’s true, Mariana. The only thing that matters now is finding the 
second thief so we can get the works back. 
Lawrence Windsor: And if we don’t get them back, it doesn’t change 
anything. I’ll always love you. 
Mariana Windsor: Thanks, Dad. I love you too. Does that mean you 
forgive me? 
Lawrence Windsor: Of course I forgive you. 
Sajid: Okay, now we have to find out who took the drawings from Tahir
’s shop.
 Lawrence Windsor: There is something strange about that man. 
Sajid: Well, he did lie to us. I think we should talk to him again. 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, though this time, I think you should go with the 
police…. 
64. The police 
Lawrence Windsor gives Sajid and Gulista a small card with a telephone 
number on. 
Sajid: Whose number is this? 
Lawrence Windsor: It’s the number of Detective Smith. 
Sajid: The police officer who’s investigating the case? 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, she is the police officer in charge of the case 
regarding the robbery. 
Sajid: We should call her. 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, I think you should. I think the three of you could 
work well together. 
Gulista: That sounds like a great idea! 
Lawrence Windsor:  
With Detective Smith, you can question Tahir
 again and ask him why he didn’t tell you the truth. Maybe if you go with the 
police, he’ll tell the truth. 
65. The telephone call 
Sajid and Gulista telephone Detective Smith and ask her to investigate 
the robbery of the Turner drawings together. 
Detective Smith: Hello? 
Gulista: Hello, Detective Smith. Do you remember me? My name is 
Gulista. 
Detective Smith: Ah, Gulista! I assume you are with Sajid, investigating 
the robbery of the Turner drawings. 
Gulista: Yes! How did you know? 
Detective Smith: It’s my job to know these things! I am investigating 
everything related to the robbery as well. I know you are doing the same. 
Gulista: Yes, we have been making some inquiries…. We don’t want to 
interfere with the police, of course. 
Detective Smith: No, it’s not a problem. Why are you calling? 
Gulista: If possible, Detective, we would like to meet with you. We have 
some information that we think could help and you could also help us to move 
forward with the investigation. 
66. The meeting in the square 
Sajid and Gulista make plans to meet with Detective Smith in Trafalgar 
Square, Bangalore. Detective Smith is a woman in her forties. She is tall, 
with brown hair and dark brown eyes. She wears red glasses. 
Detective Smith: Hi Gulista, hi Sajid. 
Gulista: Hi, Detective. It’s a pleasure to meet you. 
Detective Smith: The pleasure is mine! Now tell me, what have you found 
out so far? 
Sajid: This is what we know so far; Mariana, the daughter of Lawrence 
Windsor, has a collection of comics that are very important to her. She 
normally buys them in Camden Market, and for a while now she has been 
buying them in Tahir’s shop, but her father stopped giving her money
 for the comics. That’s when she started to steal objects from the house to 
exchange for comic books at the shop. 
Detective Smith:  
Tahir told the girl to steal?
Sajid: Mariana says he didn’t. He only told her that he could do a trade- 
off, but he didn’t specifically tell her to steal. 
67. The plan with Detective Smith 
Gulista and Sajid tell Detective Smith everything they know so far about 
the robbery of the Turner drawings. 
Detective Smith: What do you know about the second robbery? 
Sajid: Not a lot. We know that when we saw the drawings and recognised 
them, Tahir called a friend of his... an art expert, to ask him to go and
 see them the next day. 
Detective Smith: And then what? 
Sajid: Then, someone smashed the shop windows that night and stole the 
drawings. 
Detective Smith: It wasn’t either of you, was it? 
Gulista: Ha ha ha. 
Sajid: No, no, of course not. 
Detective Smith: Okay, I had to ask. It’s my job. 
Gulista: We just want the drawings back in Lawrence Windsor’s 
collection, where they will be safe and well looked after. 
Detective Smith: I see. Let’s make a plan. 
Sajid: Okay, what shall we do next? 
Detective Smith: 
something that we’re missing.... 
We  need  to  go  back  to  Tahir ’s  shop.  There  is
68. The interrogation 
Gulista, Sajid and Detective Smith go to speak with Tahir in his
 shop. Detective Smith shows him a photo of Mariana Windsor on her mobile 
phone. 
Detective Smith: Please look at this photo, Mr. Green. Do you recognise 
this girl? 
Tahir:
 Yes, yes, I recognise her. 
Detective Smith: Do you know her name? 
Tahir:
Tahir:
 Yes, it’s the girl from the Windsor mansion.… Mariana. 
Detective Smith: Okay. How do you know her? 
She often comes to the shop to buy comics. 
Tahir:
 Detective Smith: Mr. Green, did this girl bring you the Turner drawings? 
Yes, it was her. 
Sajid: Why didn’t you say so before? 
Tahir:
 I know it’s bad to lie, really. But she begged me not to say 
anything. She’s just a girl. I couldn’t betray her trust like that. She’s been 
coming to the shop for years. She is one of my best customers. She trusts me. 
She asked me not to tell anyone who brought the drawings. I decided to keep 
it a secret for her. 
Detective Smith: Did you know that the objects she brought in were 
stolen? 
Tahir:
 Of course not! I had no idea. 
69. A new suspect 
Detective Smith, Sajid and Gulista continue to ask Tahir questions
 in order to find the second thief. 
Detective Smith: Mr. Green, who knew that the Turner drawings were 
here? Did you tell anyone? 
Tahir:
 Hmm… let me think. Well, apart from myself and these two 
women, I don’t think there’s anyone else … 
Tahir:
Gulista: What about your friend? 
What friend? 
Gulista: The British art historian. 
Detective Smith: What are you talking about? 
Gulista: When we recognised the drawings, Mr. Green called his friend, 
an art historian, to have him confirm that the drawings were indeed Turner 
originals. He was going to come to the shop the next day. 
Tahir:
 Detective Smith: Who is the art historian, Mr. Green? 
His name is Michael Wright. 
Detective Smith: Can we talk to him? 
70. The search for Michael Wright 
Mr. Tahir gives Detective Smith information about Michael Wright,
 his address and telephone number. Then, the three of them leave the shop. 
Sajid: What do you think, Detective Smith? 
Detective Smith: I think we should talk with Michael Wright. Maybe he’s 
the person we are looking for. Let’s call his house… I’ll call him right now. 
Gulista: No one answered? 
Detective Smith: No. It rang, but no one picked up. 
Gulista: Shall we try his mobile? 
Detective Smith: Okay, I’ll call his mobile. 
Sajid: Did it ring? 
Detective Smith: No. His phone must be off. 
Gulista: That seems suspicious. 
Detective Smith: Yes, it is strange. 
Sajid: Should we go to his house to talk to him? 
Detective Smith: Yes! Do you want to come? 
Sajid: Definitely, let’s go! 
Gulista: Let’s go! 
71. The last location 
Detective Smith takes Gulista and Sajid to the address that Tahir
 gave them. They ring the doorbell, but no one comes to the door. Meanwhile, 
Smith asks her colleagues to confirm that the address and telephone number 
are correct. 
Detective Smith: This is the address of Michael Wright, Doctor in Art 
History, specialist in British art. 
Sajid: How weird! Right? He doesn’t answer the phone, there’s no one 
home, and his mobile is turned off. 
Detective Smith: Yes, it is strange. I’ve asked my colleagues to try and 
find out the location of his mobile phone. 
Gulista: They can do that? 
Detective Smith: Yes, if the GPS has been used recently, they can locate 
the phone. They’ve found it! They say that the mobile phone was detected in 
Newcastle a few hours ago. 
Sajid: Newcastle? That’s five hours away… What is he doing there? 
Gulista: I think I know what he might be doing there…. 
Detective Smith: What? 
Gulista: There is a big art festival that begins today in Newcastle. Art 
collectors visit from all around the world. 
Sajid: So that means…. 
Detective Smith: That means that if he has the Turner drawings, he can 
sell them there.... 
72. The trip to Newcastle 
Sajid, Gulista and Detective Smith have suspicions about Michael 
Wright, who appears to be in Newcastle. 
Detective Smith: Okay. The next step is to travel to Newcastle. We have 
to prevent the drawings from being sold on the black market. 
Sajid: Also… there is a ferry port in Newcastle. 
Gulista: So if he manages to sell the works, he can get a ferry to Holland 
and leave the country. 
Detective Smith: Exactly. We have to leave as soon as possible. I 
understand if you prefer to stay here and enjoy your holiday. 
Sajid: Are you joking, Detective Smith?! We wouldn’t miss this for the 
world! 
Detective Smith: Ha ha ha. Okay, get in the car then, because we’re 
leaving right now! 
Gulista: This plan is crazy! 
Sajid: If you want to stay, I get it…. 
Gulista: No, of course not! This is a crazy plan… that I want to be part 
of! 
Detective Smith: Okay then, say no more. 
73. The Newcastle arts festival 
Detective Smith, Sajid and Gulista travel to the city of Newcastle, just 30 
minutes from the East coast, in Detective Smith’s car. The Newcastle arts 
festival is filled with visitors, collectors and artists. There are hundreds of 
people. 
Sajid: How are we going to find this man among all these people? 
Detective Smith: I have a photo of him! My colleagues at the police 
station sent it to me. Look! 
Gulista: He’s an older man. He must be around sixty. 
Detective Smith: Sixty-two, according to the report they sent me. 
Sajid: He has long, grey hair and wears glasses with a gold frame. 
Gulista: That helps. It won’t be very difficult to find him. 
Detective Smith: We can split up. Gulista, you go right. Sajid, you go 
left. I’ll go down the centre. 
Sajid: Perfect. 
Gulista: Let’s go! 
74. The chase 
Detective Smith, Sajid and Gulista split up to look for Michael Wright at 
the Newcastle arts festival. 
Gulista: Sajid, Sajid! I saw him! He is carrying a briefcase. I think he 
went that way! 
Detective Smith: Did you see anything? 
Sajid: Yes, Gulista said she saw him go that way. He is carrying a 
briefcase! 
Detective Smith: Perfect, let’s go that way. 
Gulista: Look! There he is. 
Sajid: I don’t see him. Where is he? 
Gulista: He’s the man in the purple suit. 
Detective Smith: There he is, going up the staircase. 
Sajid: I see him. How do we stop him? 
Detective Smith: Sajid, you go up that staircase. I’ll go up this one. 
Gulista, you stay here in case he comes back down. 
Gulista: Okay! 
75. Michael Wright 
Detective Smith and Sajid run towards the man, each one from a different 
direction. When they get closer, running directly towards him, the man sees 
them, is startled and drops the briefcase, which falls open. Inside is…. 
Sajid: A banana? 
Detective Smith: What’s that? A banana? 
Michael Wright: Who are you? What do you want? Yes, it’s my snack. 
What’s the problem? 
Detective Smith: I’m sorry, Mr. Wright. I’m Detective Smith. We’ve 
come from Bangalore. Can we talk to you? 
Michael Wright: Yes, of course. Is something wrong? 
Detective Smith: That’s what we’re trying to find out…. 
Michael Wright: What’s going on? 
Detective Smith: We have been trying to get in touch with you since this 
morning. We went to your house and called your phone, but there was no 
answer. 
Michael Wright: Well, no. I’m clearly not at home. I’m here on 
holiday…. And my mobile battery ran out a few hours ago. Is there a problem 
with that? 
Detective Smith: No, of course not. Can you tell us if you know a man 
called Tahir?
76. Michael’s story 
Michael Wright, at the Newcastle arts festival, answers Detective Smith, 
Sajid and Gulista’s questions. 
Michael Wright: 
Yes, I know Tahir. He’s not a close friend, but I
 know who he is. He’s that man who sells stolen objects in his shop in Camden 
Market, right? Has something happened to him? 
Detective Smith: Have you spoken with him recently? 
Michael Wright: No. I haven’t spoken to him in more than a year. Why? 
Detective Smith: He didn’t call you last Saturday to ask you to go to his 
shop and see original Turner drawings? 
Michael Wright: Ha ha ha. Of course not! If I knew there were original 
Turner drawings in Camden Market, I wouldn’t be here in Newcastle…. I’d 
be in Camden Market. 
Detective Smith: He said he called you to talk about the authenticity of 
the drawings. 
Michael Wright: Absolutely not. He never called. 
Sajid: But he made the call in front of us. 
Michael Wright: Well that liar must have faked it. I haven’t received any 
calls. 
77. The non-existent call 
Detective Smith contacts the police headquarters in Bangalore to confirm 
whether Tahir made any calls to Michael Wright.
 Detective Smith:  
Gulista: Really? 
It seems that Tahir hasn’t made any calls!
 Detective Smith: They have confirmed it at the police station in 
Bangalore. They traced his mobile phone records and it turns out that he 
didn’t make any calls that day. 
Michael Wright: That’s precisely what I told you. I haven’t received any 
calls. 
Detective Smith:  
How long have you known Tahir?
 Michael Wright: I have known him for a few years. I would go to his 
shop in Camden Market sometimes to see the antiques…. 
Detective Smith: But you are not friends? 
Michael Wright: No, definitely not. He’s just a man I would occasionally 
buy things from. But, as I said, I haven’t spoken to him in over a year…. 
Detective Smith: Why? 
Michael Wright: Well, to be honest, I don’t like his business very much. 
Detective Smith: Why not? 
Michael Wright: Because he has a lot of stolen objects! 
78. The deceit 
Detective Smith finishes questioning Michael Wright and, after checking 
his briefcase, lets him go. Then she talks with Sajid and Gulista about what 
they should do next. 
Detective Smith: What do you both think? 
Sajid: I think it’s obvious that Michael Wright has nothing to do with this. 
We’ve been deceived! 
Gulista: 
We’ve been tricked by Tahir. And it’s not the first time he’s
 lied to us! He must have known that Michael Wright comes to this arts 
festival every year. He used it to get us out of the city. 
Sajid:  
Do you think it’s possible to arrest Tahir, Detective Smith?
 Detective Smith: We don’t have any evidence yet. Even if he has lied, we 
can’t arrest him just for that. We have to catch him ‘red-handed’. We have to 
find the Turner drawings. 
Sajid: But what if he’s escaping right now, taking advantage of us being 
here in Newcastle? 
Detective Smith: I will call the police station in Bangalore and have them 
watch over him. They will make sure he doesn’t escape. If he tries to get 
away with the drawings, we will arrest him. 
Gulista: Should we go, then? 
Detective Smith: Let’s go! 
79. The return trip 
On the trip back to Bangalore, Detective Smith asks Gulista to give her 
more information about the drawings. 
Detective Smith:  
If we do find Tahir with the Turner drawings, we
 have to make sure that they are actually the ones we are looking for. Can you 
describe the drawings? 
Gulista: Of course. There are three drawings. 
Detective Smith: Are they large? 
Gulista: No, they’re not very big. They can easily fit inside a briefcase. 
Detective Smith: Okay, what else? 
Gulista: The paper is very old. It’s a yellowish colour, not white. 
Detective Smith: Great, what are the drawings of? 
Gulista: One of the drawings is of a large church. 
Detective Smith: A church? 
Gulista: Yes, a large church with a cemetery in front. 
Detective Smith: Okay, what about the other two drawings? 
Gulista: Another drawing shows a sleeping cat curled up in a ball. 
Detective Smith: Great, and the third drawing? 
Gulista: The third drawing is of a ship in rough seas, looking like it’s 
about to capsize. 
Detective Smith: Okay, good to know. 
80. The escape 
A few hours later, Sajid, Gulista and Detective Smith arrive in Bangalore. 
It’s early morning. The sun is coming up and the streets begin to fill with 
Bangaloreers going to work. The women go directly to Tahir’s shop.
 Detective Smith: 
That police car is making sure that Tahir doesn’t
 escape. Let’s ask my colleagues if they have seen anything strange. 
Sajid: Okay! 
Detective Smith: Hello Officer Gupta. This is Sajid and Gulista. They are 
helping with the investigation. How is everything going? Have you seen him? 
Officer Gupta: Hi, Detective Smith. Good morning. Mr. Green is in the 
flat above the shop. He’s been there since last night. He turned off the lights 
a few hours ago. We are waiting on some kind of movement. 
Gulista: Look! He’s coming out of the flat. 
Detective Smith: He’s got a briefcase. Let’s go. Mr. Green, stop! 
Sajid: He’s running away! We have to catch him! 
Detective Smith: Turn on the flashing lights in the police car, Gupta. 
Officer Gupta: He’s gone down that narrow alleyway. We can’t drive 
down there. 
Detective Smith: Let’s run after him! 
81. The chase 
Gulista, Sajid and Detective Smith run after Tahir as the police car
 cannot fit in the alleyway he has gone down. 
Sajid: This alleyway is so dark! 
Gulista: I can’t see anything. Do you think he’s hiding somewhere? 
Sajid: I can hear him breathing. 
Detective Smith: Wait. Let me turn my torch on. 
Sajid: Much better! There, behind those rubbish bins, something is 
moving! 
Detective Smith: Quiet! I’m going to sneak up…. 
Cat: MEOWWWW! 
Sajid andGulista: AAAAAHHHHH! 
Detective Smith:  
gone? 
Calm down, it was just a cat! But where has Tahir
Sajid: There he is, at the other end 
Detective Smith: Let’s go! 
Gulista: He’s a fast runner! 
Sajid: He turned left! 
Detective Smith: There are lots of winding streets around here. He wants 
us to lose sight of him. Let’s split up again. Gulista, you go right. Sajid, you 
go left. I’ll go straight. I don’t think he’s dangerous, but if he has a gun you 
should get down on the ground. 
Gulista: A gun?! But he’s just an ordinary thief…. 
Detective Smith: Gulista, you never know what people are capable of 
doing for money! 
82. The bicycles 
The three of them start running in different directions. In the early 
morning  silence,  Tahir ’s  footsteps  can  be  heard  not  too  far  away.
 Nonetheless, one minute later, the three women find themselves back facing 
each other at a crossroads. 
Gulista: Damn! Where did he go? 
Sajid: There he is. He flagged down a cab. Look! 
Detective Smith: Yes, that’s him. If he gets in that car, we won’t be able 
to catch him. 
Gulista: Unless we find our own vehicles to follow him. 
Detective Smith: How? The police car is back by the shop. We will lose 
sight of him. 
Gulista: Well, how about those? 
Sajid: The city bikes! Let’s go! 
Detective Smith: Have you got your travel cards to hand? 
Sajid andGulista: Always! 
Detective Smith: Okay, let’s go! 
Sajid: How exciting! I feel like I’m in one of my novels…. 
Gulista: This is terrifying! I feel like I’m in one of your novels…. 
Detective Smith: Right, these are electric bikes, if we want to catch him, 
we must increase the speed as high as it will go, ready? 
Sajid: Yes! 
Gulista: No! 
Detective Smith: Let’s go! 
83. The fall 
The three of them set the bikes at maximum speed, which proceed to shoot 
off towards the car, and they manage to catch up with it in just a few seconds. 
Detective Smith rides in front. As she is about to reach the cab, however, 
Tahir opens the door and Detective Smith slams into it with force. She
 falls down in the middle of the street next to her bike. Gulista and Sajid stop 
to help her. 
Detective Smith: What are you doing? Keep going! 
Gulista: Are you okay? 
Detective Smith: Yes, it’s just a scratch. Go! 
Sajid: Ok! 
Gulista: He’s stopped at the traffic lights! Let’s go. 
Tahir:
 :
Sajid: Careful when you get close, stay away from the doors. 
Don’t come any closer! I won’t give you anything.Sajid: 
Stop this madness, Mr. Green. The police will stop you anyway. Tahir
Not if I can help it! 
Gulista: The traffic lights have turned green. He’s getting away! 
Sajid: And if we catch up with him, what do we do? We need to think of 
a plan. 
84. The plan 
As they ride behind the cab, Gulista and Sajid come up with a simple plan 
to get the briefcase back. There are more and more vehicles on the road. 
Sajid: Okay, the window on the left-hand side is open. We can get close 
to him that way. 
Gulista: Do you think there’s enough space to take the briefcase out? 
Sajid: No, no, we’ll just get close enough to talk to him. One of us should 
do that. The other should approach the other side of the car, on the right. I 
doubt he has locked the door after he opened it to knock down Detective 
Smith. 
Gulista: Okay, once we have opened the door, then what? 
Sajid: Once we open the door, we sneak inside the car and take the 
briefcase without him noticing! 
Gulista: What?! You can do that bit! I’m not stepping foot inside that car 
with that maniac inside! 
Sajid: Okay, well then you have to be the one who distracts him. 
Gulista: Right. I’ll have to think of a distraction…. 
85. The distraction 
The car arrives on Regents Street, where it is about to make a stop at 
traffic lights. The women take advantage of the opportunity. Gulista goes 
first, approaching the left-hand side of the vehicle, where the window is 
wound down. 
Tahir:
 Get away! You don’t want to get hurt…. 
Cab driver: He’s right, you should keep some distance so as to prevent 
causing an accident. 
Tahir:
 Shut up! 
Cab driver: How rude! 
Gulista: Mr. Green, you have to give back the briefcase. Sooner or later 
they will catch you. 
Tahir:
 belongs to me. 
Catch me? What for? I haven’t done anything. This briefcase 
Gulista: I’m not talking about the briefcase; I’m talking about what’s 
inside! 
Tahir:
 I acquired what’s inside legally. The girl brought it to my 
shop and I exchanged it for an extremely valuable comic book that’s over one 
hundred years old. When I make a good business deal, why should I have to 
give away my profits? 
Tahir:
 Cab driver: What is she doing by the other door? 
HEY! WHAT’S GOING ON?! 
86. The argument 
While Tahir talks to Gulista, Sajid tries to slowly sneak into the cab
 on the right side, until the driver sees her. Then, Tahir holds on tightly
 to the briefcase, pushes Sajid out of the car and gets out of the cab. 
Tahir:
 Listen, let me be clear. I am not giving those drawings back! 
They are mine, mine! 
Tahir :
Sajid: Those drawings belong to Lawrence Windsor and you know it. 
Of course not! It was a fair trade-off, a good business 
opportunity. I just took advantage of it. I didn’t even know those drawings 
were by Turner. You both know that. They could have been anyone’s, they 
could have been worthless. It was my trader’s instinct that led me to a good 
business deal, and now you want to take it away from me! 
Gulista: That’s ridiculous! You are a liar. You knew that there were 
valuable items in that house and you convinced an innocent little girl to steal 
from her own father. 
87. The gun! 
Tahir is bright red with rage. He is getting more and more angry.
 He is standing in the middle of Regents Street, facing the two women. Cars 
are passing by rapidly. 
Tahir:
 I never told her to steal! 
Gulista: You knew perfectly well that the girl was stealing. If not, why 
would she come to your shop with objects and not money? What’s more, you 
manipulated her to take even more valuable objects each time. 
Tahir:
 You are crazy. I would never do that! I haven’t manipulated 
anyone. I’m just a businessman. I work with antiques. These are antiques, 
and they are mine! 
Sajid: No! They belong to Lawrence Windsor, and you will give them 
back to their rightful owner! 
Tahir:
 Is that right? I don’t think so! 
Gulista: Careful, Sajid! He’s got a gun! 
Tahir:
Sajid: Oh my god, Detective Smith was right! He’s armed! 
Gulista: Mr. Green, put the gun down! Don’t do anything stupid. 
JUST LEAVE! BECAUSE I’VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS! 
Cab driver: No, I’ve had enough of this! 
88. Pete 
The cab driver, seeing that Tahir gets out a gun and aims it at the
 two women, takes a small baseball bat from under his seat and slowly 
approaches Tahir from behind. When he sees that he is about to shoot,
 he hits him round the head with all his might. Tahir falls to the ground,
 unconscious. 
Cab driver: And you better wake up soon, because you own me 7 pounds 
thirty pence! 
Sajid: Thank you, Sir! You saved us! I really think he was going to shoot. 
Gulista: Do you always carry a baseball bat in your car? 
Cab driver: Ha ha ha, no! It’s my son’s. He has softball practice this 
afternoon. It was just a coincidence! 
Detective Smith: Are you both okay, what happened? 
Sajid: 
Tahir got out of the car and confronted us. He was furious. At
 one point, he got a gun out! Then this good man came up from behind and 
knocked him out! 
Detective Smith: Thank you very much. What is your name? 
Cab driver: I’m Pete. So what’s in that briefcase anyway, that has you all 
so worried? 
89. The briefcase 
Detective Smith handcuffs Tahir, with his hands behind his back.
 She radios the police car and tells them to send an ambulance. Then, under 
the watchful gaze of Gulista, Sajid and Pete, she opens the briefcase, which 
is lying on the ground. Inside are the Turner drawings! 
Gulista: I can’t believe we finally got them back. 
Pete: They’re beautiful! Did you do them? 
Gulista: No, no, they are by William Turner, one of the greatest painters 
in the history of British art. 
Pete: Turner? Of course, I love his work. I always take my son to the 
National Gallery; they have several of his paintings there. What are you going 
to with the drawings now? 
Sajid: We are going to give them back to their owner, Lawrence 
Windsor…. And I think you should come with us, since you helped us to get 
them back. 
90. Tahir wakes up
 At that moment, Tahir wakes up. He seems rather confused at first,
 but immediately goes back to being furious when he realises he is handcuffed. 
He tries to get up, but he can’t. 
Tahir:
 anything. 
Tahir:
 What is this? Take these handcuffs off me. I haven’t done 
Gulista: Is that right? 
No, of course not. 
Tahir:
 Detective Smith: I think you’re going to be in handcuffs for a while. 
Look, Officer, as I have already explained to these women, 
I acquired those drawings legally. I have a shop where you can buy and 
exchange antiques. A customer bought me those drawings and I gave them 
something very valuable in exchange. It’s completely legal! 
Detective Smith: Really? Is lying to the police legal? And is aiming a gun 
at two women legal? If you had told the truth from the beginning, you would 
be free right now, and most likely with a nice reward from Lawrence Windsor 
for getting his art back. Instead, you are now going to prison! 
Tahir:
 Damn! 
Pete: Did someone say ‘reward’? 
91. The departure of Tahir
 A short while later, two police cars and an ambulance arrive to take 
Tahir away, still in handcuffs to make sure he doesn’t try to escape.
Sajid: Well, it seems that we won’t have to listen to any more of Tahir
’s lies....
Gulista: Finally! It’s been so exhausting. 
Detective Smith: Gulista, Sajid, you have really done a great job. If it 
wasn’t for you, we would never have caught him. 
Pete: Don’t forget about me, Officer! 
Detective Smith: Ha ha ha. Of course, Pete. Your role was brief but 
essential  in  capturing  Tahir ....  You  probably  saved  these  women’s
 lives! 
Gulista: Your son would be proud. 
Pete: I don’t think he’ll believe anything about what happened today. 
Sajid: What do we do now? 
Detective Smith: It’s time to go to Lawrence Windsor’s house. We need 
to get these works of art back home. 
92. The return of the drawings 
In police car and Pete’s cab, everyone heads to Lawrence Windsor’s 
mansion. They call him on the way. Detective Smith carries the briefcase with 
the drawings. As they approach the house, Lawrence is waiting for them in 
the doorway with a huge smile. 
Lawrence Windsor: Gulista! Sajid! Detective, come in, come in! 
Sajid: Mr. Windsor! We got them back. 
Lawrence Windsor: I know! It’s incredible. I am so grateful to you all. 
Pete: Hello, I’m Pete. I saved these two at the last minute, just when the 
thief was about to shoot. 
Lawrence Windsor: Really? I can’t believe it! Come in, Pete, tell me 
everything. I want to hear every last detail. 
Detective Smith: Gulista, Sajid and Pete have done an amazing job. We 
are very satisfied with their efforts, and now the drawings are back in their 
rightful home. 
Lawrence Windsor: But this isn’t their home! 
All: What?! 
Lawrence Windsor: No, this isn’t their home anymore. I’ve decided to 
donate my entire collection to the National Gallery! 
93. The donation 
Everyone looks at Lawrence Windsor, confused. They go through to the 
living room and ask him for an explanation, after greeting Mariana Windsor, 
Pauline and the rest of the house staff. 
Sajid: You are going to donate your entire collection? But you love your 
collection more than anything else in the world! 
Lawrence Windsor: Exactly! I love that collection so much that I think 
the best thing is for it to be in a place where it will be taken care of as best as 
possible. At the National Gallery, it won’t only be looked after properly, it 
will have top security. Evidently, this is something that I can no longer 
guarantee for my collection. Moreover…. I’ve had a serious talk with 
Mariana. 
Mariana Windsor: That’s right. Dad and I have talked and we decided 
that we both spend too much time thinking about our collections. We should 
spend more time together, so that’s why we have decided to donate them. 
Gulista: You’re also donating your collection, Mariana? 
Mariana Windsor: Yes! I’m just going to keep a few comics to read from 
time to time, but I’ll take the oldest ones to The Cartoon Museum, where they 
have a huge collection of comics. 
Detective Smith: I think that’s very selfless of you. 
Lawrence Windsor: After everything that’s happened, we think it’s for 
the best. 
94. The reward 
Liz and Jacob bring coffee into the living room for everyone. Then, 
Gulista and Sajid tell Lawrence Windsor everything that has happened since 
the last time they were at the house. Pete proudly tells his part at the end of 
the story. Lawrence Windsor waits patiently for them to finish the story and 
then he makes an announcement. 
Lawrence Windsor: Now, I know they will refuse, but I want to say 
something. I had offered a reward of one thousand pounds to whoever helped 
me get the artwork back, but I think it’s not enough…. Given the value of the 
works and everything you have done, I think that each person deserves five 
thousand pounds each! Including Pete, our last-minute hero. 
Sajid: We couldn’t possibly accept that. 
Gulista: We don’t want any reward, Mr. Windsor. 
Pete: I, personally, am happy to accept! I’ll finally be able to buy my son 
a new bike. And maybe one day I will be able to get my own cab. 
Sajid: You can give our part to Pete, Mr. Windsor. He did save our lives 
after all! And his son will be so grateful. 
Lawrence Windsor: Okay, that seems like a good idea. But at least let me 
give you something else. 
Gulista: It isn’t money? 
Lawrence Windsor: No, it’s not money… it’s a surprise. I will give it to 
you in a week’s time, at the National Gallery. 
95. The opening 
One week later, Sajid and Gulista attend the formal opening of the new 
Windsor Hall at the National Gallery. Lawrence Windsor’s collection will be 
on exhibit to the public in this new space. The two women, who have spent 
the last week resting in the hotel, are dressed in formal attire, in long ball 
gowns. Waiters are circulating the room, offering glasses of wine and 
canapés. The works of art from Lawrence Windsor’s collection are on display 
around the room. On the largest wall, highlighted with special lighting, are 
the Turner drawings. 
Gulista: Pete! You came. 
Pete: Yes! Of course. I wouldn’t miss this for the world. This is Adam, 
my son. 
Sajid: Hi, Adam! Did your father tell you how he saved our lives? 
Ali: It’s true!? I thought he was making it up. 
Gulista: Not at all. Your father is a hero! 
Detective Smith: Gulista, Sajid! You’re here! 
Sajid: Detective Smith! I almost didn’t recognise you with that dress on. 
Detective Smith: Ha ha ha. Today is my day off, so you can call me 
Kelly. 
96. The offer 
At that moment, Lawrence Windsor enters the room with a woman. He 
walks straight over to where they are all standing. 
Lawrence Windsor: Hello everyone! Detective Smith, how are you? 
Pete, have you bought your new car yet? I bet it’s fast! Ladies! 
Sajid: Hi, Lawrence! You seem very happy. 
Lawrence Windsor: I am, look at my collection! I’ve never seen my 
works of art surrounded by so many people, with so much vitality. By the 
way…. There’s someone I’d like you to meet. This is Amelia, the director of 
the museum. 
Amelia: Hi everyone! 
Lawrence Windsor: Amelia, I have someone very special to introduce. 
This is Gulista, the woman I told you about. 
Gulista: Hi, Amelia. It’s a real honour to meet you. Of course I already 
know who you are, I’ve read all your articles about museology. 
Amelia: That doesn’t surprise me. Lawrence tells me you are very 
professional and hard-working. 
Gulista: Well, I’m not sure about that. 
Amelia: Well I know for a fact that you are, your university told me you 
graduated with honours, top of your class! 
Gulista: You called my university? 
Amelia: Absolutely! I wouldn’t hire a new curator for the museum without 
checking their academic records first. And I have to say, yours are 
impeccable! 
Gulista: Me, your new curator?! Here at the National Gallery?! 
Amelia: Of course, who better to take care of our new exhibition hall? 
97. The second offer 
Gulista tears up with emotion. It’s her dream job! Sajid hugs her with 
joy. 
Sajid: Gulista, I’m so happy for you. That means we can live in Bangalore! 
We can look for an apartment in Camden, now that we know the area so well. 
Lawrence Windsor: Do you know what you want to do here, Sajid? 
Sajid: Yes, the same as always: write! I want to write a story about the 
robbery, I think it would be an excellent true crime story. 
Lawrence Windsor: I’m so glad to hear you say that, because it’s exactly 
what I have in mind. 
Sajid: What do you mean? 
Lawrence Windsor: A few days ago, I called my good friend Thomas 
Richter, from the publication Raymond. 
Sajid: Raymond?! That’s my favourite police crime publication. 
Lawrence Windsor: Yes, they’re the best. Thomas is a very good friend 
of mine. Finally, I told him about the robbery and he also thinks it will make 
perfect material for a novel. But we are a bit concerned…. 
Sajid: Why’s that? 
Lawrence Windsor: Well, because we don’t have anyone to write it…. If 
only we knew a writer specialising in police crime novels that knew every 
detail of the robbery…. Wait a minute! What about you? 
Sajid: Are you serious? You want me to write a novel for the Raymond 
publication? That’s my dream! 
Lawrence Windsor: Great, because they already have the contract ready 
for you to sign. Thomas will see you at 10am tomorrow in his office. 
Gulista: SAJID, SAJID! Are you okay? She’s fainted! 
98. Lawrence Windsor’s speech 
Sajid recovers quickly, and she can’t believe what Lawrence has done for 
her. Both women feel like they are in a dream. Just then, Lawrence Windsor 
clinks his glass to get everyone’s attention. 
Lawrence Windsor: Friends, colleagues. I’d like to propose a toast. 
Firstly, I’d like to propose a toast to art. These works you see around you 
have brought me a lot of happiness over the years. Now, I sincerely hope that 
they bring happiness to everyone who comes to see them here at the National 
Gallery. I would like to thank Amelia for accepting my donation, and for 
opening the museum’s doors to provide such a wonderful space for the 
collection. But, most of all, I’d like to thank four people without whom these 
three original Turner drawings wouldn’t be here: Detective Smith, Pete, Sajid 
and Gulista. A toast to them! Cheers! 
99. The map 
Everyone toasts and claps. Gulista and Sajid look at each other and raise 
their glasses to a new life in Bangalore. They are very excited by everything 
that is to yet to come. Then, a waiter comes over with a note. 
Waiter: Are you Sajid and Gulista? I have a message for you both. 
Gulista: What is that? What does it say? 
Sajid: It says “Follow the map to the point marked X”. There’s a floor 
plan of the museum with a trail marked from where we are right now to a 
small room marked X. 
Gulista: What do you say? Are you ready to follow clues again? To solve 
a new mystery? 
Sajid: I don’t think it’s a mystery, I think I know exactly what it’s about…. 
Gulista: Well, let’s go then. 
Pete: Hey! Where are you going? 
Sajid: We’ll be back soon. 
Pete: Don’t get into any trouble. I might not be there to save you. 
Sajid: Got it! 
100. A special invitation 
The two women follow the map of the museum as specified in the note: 
they go up the first set of stairs, turn right and go in the first door on the left, 
then up a narrow stairway into a small room. 
Gulista: It’s the man in the hat!
Adam: You can call me Bernard, that’s my name! 
Sajid: Hi, Bernard. I wondered when we’d see you again. 
Adam: It wasn’t my intention to take you away from the party, but I 
wanted to congratulate you on solving the mystery, and on your new jobs! 
Gulista: How do you know about that? 
Adam: At the Historians’ Club we know a lot of things.… Speaking of 
which, it is my honour to give you these. 
Sajid: What are they? 
Adam: Open the envelopes. Inside you will find two invitations to be 
members of the Historians’ Club. 
Gulista: Adam, it would be an honour…. 
Sajid: Does that mean we can help you to solve mysteries? 
Adam: Exactly! We will let you know whenever we might need your 
help. Are you interested? 
Sajid andGulista: Of course! 
Adam: I’m so pleased. Now go back to the party! Your friends are 
waiting for you. And remember, don’t tell anyone about this! It’s a secret. 
101. The Windsors 
When they go back to the opening party, Detective Smith runs towards 
them. 
Detective Smith: Where were you both? We just got an important call a 
few minutes ago! 
Sajid: What happened? Is everything okay? 
Detective Smith: Yes, everything’s fine. It’s just that… the Windsors 
want to thank you personally for recovering the Turner works. 
Gulista: What do you mean, Lawrence and Mariana already thanked us 
in person several times. 
Detective Smith: No, not those Windsors! The Windsors. The royal 
family! They are waiting for you at the palace…. 
 
 
 
